# Welcome to Workforce

## What is Workforce?

Workforce is a tool that makes AI Integration easy. It's a no-code tool that lets you build automation **flows** using a drag-and-drop interface.

All of the messy details of integration are handled for you. You can focus on building **flows** that solve your business problems.

Workforce allows for **tasks** to be assigned to AI, Humans, or a combination of both. It's designed to be used by anyone, regardless of technical skill level.

There is both a web interface and a command line interface. **Flows** are represented as configuration files that can be created using either interface. Importing and exporting **flows** is easy, so you can share your **flows** with others or manage them using version control.

## Philosophy

There are four core design principles:

1. **Simplicity**: Workforce is designed to require as little information as possible from end-users. It should be smart enough to figure out underlying details on its own.
2. **Reliability**: Workforce should reliably perform **tasks** in the manner users expect.
3. **Ease of use**: Workforce is designed to be easy to use. It should be fast and easy to create, modify, and share **flows**.
4. **Performance**: Workforce is designed to be fast. It should be able to be fast enough to handle real-time interactions and power complex automated **flows**.

## What is a flow?

A **flow** can be anything that integrates systems together and performs one or more **tasks**. Workforce is designed to integrate with existing systems and automate tasks that would otherwise be done manually.

**Tasks** can be as simple as producing a document or as involved as an interactive chat with a customer. They can be short-lived (creating a document, having a live chat) or long-lived (having a long-running chat with a customer over the course of several days via email).

Example **tasks** include:

- Having an AI chat with a customer and then create a ticket in your helpdesk system
- Creating meeting notes from a recording of a meeting
- Automatically producing diagrams, architecture documents, and other artifacts from a design session
- Writing, debugging, and deploying code
- Facilitating a meeting by providing a collaborative interface for participants that includes an AI assistant
- A chatbot that has access to your CRM and can update customer information
- A documentation assistant that can explain how to use a product
- A collborative interface for your application that lets users collaborate with AI to perform tasks
- Automating a process that involves multiple systems and people

## How does it work?

Workforce uses just a handful of very simple concepts that can be combined to create complex **flows**.

These include:

- **Tasks**: A task is a unit of work that can be performed by a human or AI. It contains a definition of everything needed to perform the task, including inputs, outputs, workers, tools, and triggers.
- **Workers**: A worker is a person or AI that can perform a task.
- **Resources**: A resource contains artifacts. Resources can be used to provide data to a task or to store data that is generated by a task, such as a file.
- **Channels**: A channel is a way for workers to communicate with each other. Channels can be used to send messages, share files, and more. Examples include email, Slack, SMS, and more.
- **Trackers**: A tracker is a ticketing system that can be interacted with during a task. Trackers can be used to create tickets, update tickets, and more. Examples include Trello, Jira, and more.
- **Tools**: A tool is a system that can be integrated with to assist with performing a task. Examples include APIs, databases, and more.
- **Docoument Repositories**: A document repository is a place where documents are stored and can be automatically indexed and searched. Examples include Github, Google Drive, and more.
